The next example that I want
to pull up in the primer is
the ability to dynamically
invoke a method.
So I have four methods here, add,
subtract, divide and multiply.
And in this case we're taking a and b and
we're doing something with this so,
from here I have defined an action and
it has two properties on it.
So it's an action object.
It has a funk property for
function and params and so
it's taking a parameters object.
Now the one thing I will point out is
that when you're doing dynamic method
invocation, you may not always know what
your parameter signature is going to be.
As a result, I prefer to put in
a single parameter object and
then using JavaScript.
I like to D structure the parameters that
I want to use from the parameters itself.
So in this case, I'm passing in a single
object, and then I'm pulling a and
b off of it performing some
calculation and sending it back.
Now we have a single transaction which is
just a single action or we have a ledger.
So imagine that you're working
like a cashier stand or
you're doing some kind of math and
these different events happen
that you need to either multiply,
divide, add or subtract.
And so the question is,
how do we execute a single action.
How can we accomplish that?
So, I am going to just delete everything
that was there and we will build this out.
So, to execute a single action,
we can create an execute method.
And this takes in
a single action property.
And then from here,
we're just going to call action,
funk, action, params.
And so we are able to store
a reference to that function and
then take a parameter object D
structure it and then call it.
So in this case if I wanted to execute
the single transaction we'll go
const result execute, transaction and
then from here let's go ahead and
realize it's looking for output.
So let me just go ahead and
define that real quick.
So now, I have my result, and if I go down
here we can see that
the result of the single
invocation was, well let's see here.
I want to add 1 and 3,
I could update this to be five and,
83, and you'll see here it's 88.
So just this very, very simple idea of we
are storing a reference to a function,
and then we're storing
a reference to the parameter map.
And then we are able to essentially
call this at some point.
And so now I could take this transaction
object it stored in a database,
pull this out, and then execute it.
So what this represents,
and this is really,
really important is simple and
basic is this is that this
represents something that can happen
now or it anytime in the future.
So now we're starting to play
with space and time just a bit.
And so the next question is, well,
how can we execute an array of actions?
So what would this look like?
Well, what I can do is
underneath this output,
I can go and go ledger for each action and
we will from here I'm going to go output.
Within this we're going to
capture the output of every
one of these particular action objects.
So, we're gonna go action.
Well, before I do that, so real quick,
I can go action.func(action.params) And
let me update this from constant let,
there we go.
And if we go here,
what we see is that it's
just kind of bunching them together.
So let's fix this.
So within here, I'm gonna just
enter a newline character output,
who would have thought that
that was case sensitive
Now what I've done here and hopefully
everybody kind of saw this is like,
well, aren't you kind
of doing that up here?
And so I realized and this is
important that when you are coding,
have your spidey sense on so
that if you type something you're like,
wait a second,
I feel like I just did this.
Then this is an opportunity to stop and
realize like can I optimize this so
in this case.
I was able to refer to the smaller
function that I defined up here and
so on by having fine grained single
purpose functions that they do one thing,
we're able to composite it together
in a much more efficient way.
Also something that is very,
very important.
Now, this is kinda cool, but
the problem is that we actually
have six different results or
four different results in this case.
We have unique distinct results whereas
there is back to the clothesline
a lot of circumstances where
instead of just going through and
just kind of outputting stuff Into these
individual kind of function executions.
We want to contain that into
a single collection and
ideally, preserve the previous collection.
So I'm gonna go here, ledger and so,
we'll just switch this up to map.
We're going to go action and then
From here, we are going
to then go execute,
action, okay.
Now what we're gonna see here is
that map returns a brand new array.
So we were able to preserve an array or
preserve this order and
push it back into a new
array which is important.
Last one.
Instead of having a collection
of transformed objects,
you may want to condense this into
a single value that is returned.
And so this is where reduce comes in.
So from here ledger, reduce.
And now,
the typical parameter signature for
reduce is something like ACC for
accumulated plus CURR for current.
I tend to deviate after that and
so in my case,
I'm gonna go with output and action.
And I don't have a strong opinion
on this if you wanna preserve
the original API,
I find that it is a lot easier for
me when I update the parameters to be
a little bit more self documenting.
So we're going to return,
Execute, action.
And we're going to start with,
An empty string, And this was actually
a little more verbose than I needed to be.
So, I need to go.
And then I'm just going to
return this We save this,
[LAUGH] And now what we have is
some sweet string concatenation.
And execute action.
This is so, why this is happening?
Because guess what we're doing,
math operations, and
I put an empty string in there.
So this is the real result, which is 13.
And so, hopefully,
question to the audience.
On a scale of 1 to 10, how complex
was the JavaScript that we just did?
Hopefully, you're not super offended in
the sense of like, I came here to learn
how to do magic tricks or came here to
learn how to do something really complex.
And we start out by wax in the car,
wax on,
wax off painting the fence
is that in my opinion
that I would say in terms of complexity
this is maybe a two or a three.
We're doing some basic
string concatenation.
We are doing some basic
higher order JavaScript
functions for each map and reduce.
So I'd give this maybe a two or three, so
hopefully everybody we're looking at this
and we're saying this is approachable,
just some basic high order functions.
And so, this is it.
This is in terms of JavaScript,
in JavaScript complexity.
This is as far as we are going.
And with that said we are going to
take these very basic techniques, and
we're going to start to assemble
them into some very powerful tools